# About This
This is part of the second assignment of the CS/SDP 361/352 Social Network Analysis Fall 2022 course that was offered at Habib University. 

<h3>Introduction:</h3> 
News is a product generated by people who gather, produce, and transmit it based on some set of informal and subjective rules. These rules can be different for people, society, and culture and can influence the outcome. This raises the question of whether people tend to communicate differently in different situations or not.

We want to study this by analyzing news content generated for different kinds of crises such as terror and floods. There can be different ways to analyze this, for this assignment, we decided to use the network analysis approach for this. The hypothesis we want to validate is that networks created for co-occurrence networks for different sets of news are similar.

<h3>Tasks:</h3>
In order to achieve the objectives mentioned above, we have to perform the following:

1. Extract news articles of different terms but for the same context
2. Create a word co-occurrence network for each term
3. Analyze these networks to identify how similar or different these networks

Each task is described below in detail:

<b>1. Data Extraction</b>
You have to use The Guardian API to extract the news headline and content of articles for the following terms:

a) Terror
b) Floods
As we want to make sure the context should be the same, therefore, we will retrieve only those articles also containing the word “Pakistan”.  We will limit our data extraction to 100 articles for each term.

2. Network Construction
You have to create two a network for each term. In the co-occurrence network, each word is a node and an edge represents two words that have appeared in the same article/title of the article.

You will be required to clean the data by removing stop words and performing stemming.

3. Network Analysis:
You have to provide a comparative analysis of networks of both terms to analyze which kind of language of used in different kinds of crises. You can frame your analysis as per the following question:

Whether the language used in different kinds of crisis is similar or different?
